# Morgan Weltzer Assignment 3

The senior project that my group decided to do is a Spotify music sharing web/mobile app in the form of a social media platform. For me personally, this is something that I’ve wanted to do for a while. Spotify is a prominent platform right now that has a lot of capability to connect all types of people through music. Our group’s goal is to create a platform that can expand on Spotify’s ability to connect people using social media. I think it will be both academically and creatively challenging. I specifically wanted to use the skills I have developed over my time at UC and from co-ops to design something that will connect people. This project will be a cumulation of my professional and academic experience that I can express in a project from start to finish.

While this project will have challenges, my course work at UC and co-ops have prepared me to be able to work through these with my team. One of the classes that I think will have prepared me the most for this project is Requirements Engineering (CS 5127). During this course, I was taught to specifically focus on the needs of the end user. This included writing user stories, focusing on what makes good software, and how to identify if the solution was successful or not. I think this will be particularly useful since this is an application directed at a very broad range of users. Where some applications might target specific demographics, this platform is targeted towards a variety of different people. I think the skills I learned in this class will help me to better identify these needs and how to appeal to a range of different users.

In addition to the skills, I have learned at UC, there are also a lot of skills that I learned during co-op that will be helpful. During my co-ops, I learned that I have a passion for user interface design and frontend software engineering. Specifically, when I was co-oping at Kroger as a web app and mobile developer, I was able to work closely with product designers and learn how to create an appealing and efficient app. Learning about the research and deliberation process involved in creating a UX design was invaluable to my early career growth. I think this will be a great skill to have in this process since I will be primarily working with the frontend of the application.

I am very excited to apply all these skills and more to this project. My original motivation to work on a music sharing app is my own passion and love for music and Spotify. I love listening to music and being able to connect with people through it. Music is a huge part of my life, and I would love to combine my passions and my career/education in this project. This is an idea I’ve had for a while, so it was exciting for me to learn that there were other people in the class with the same type of idea. Our group is going to approach designing this solution with a lot of user research and testing. As of now, we’re going to be developing a web app with the possibility of making it compatible with mobile apps as well.

At the end of this project, I expect my team to have developed a web application that seamlessly allows users to share music in a new and innovative way. By the end of it, I want to be able have created a beautiful and clean user interface design and a well-functioning app. To evaluate if I was successful, I will do user testing at the end. I want to be able to have multiple different types of people try this application and be able to have an enjoyable experience. I will most likely choose to measure this in the form of surveys and user interviews. If they can have a positive experience with the app and I have done well supporting team members, I will consider myself to be successful. While a lot of this success can be measured in how well the app works, I also want to be the best team member I can. If I have done my job well, I will be successful as a developer and as a team member.
