For our senior design project, we want to develop a social media/sharing app for music. In my mind, there are tons of potential features that we could add to this app, but the most basic idea is that it will be a place where users can share music interests. This could mean genres or specific songs they are into in general. Or it could be sharing songs that someone is listening to right now. All of this would appear in some sort of general feed that friends or other users can see and interact with. There are similar well-designed apps out there for other forms of media like movies, but music has always been lacking in this area. 

Throughout my education, there have been a couple of classes that I feel have directly helped me in this area of development. Going in order of when I have taken them, the first course is CS4092, which is Database Design and Development. This course gave me a good understanding of the basic development of database systems. The next two courses I am taking this current semester are CS5167 UI Design and CS5151 Database Theory. Since our project is really a web/mobile app both heavily apply to the project. While I believe I might be more focused on the back-end of the project the UI course will still help with the design aspect. And of course, working with databases is essential for most applications. 

Throughout my co-ops, I have worked on web app development for all my rotations. All my rotations have been at Medpace, where I have been working as a Software Engineer. I have worked on 3 different projects, the first being a legacy monolithic application for their lab software. Where I experienced old legacy standards for DBs, and I realized how much I dislike those standards. Moving forward, I have worked on a semi-modern Evaluation software, which had much better and applicable standards. And then what I have worked on the most is a completely modern fully cloud-based web app that I have helped build from the ground up mainly focusing on the design of the database systems and how that data is translated to the front-end. This specifically will really help my work on this project. 

For a while, I have had an idea of making an app that would work similarly to how letterboxed works for movies. Letterboxed is an application where users rate/review movies they have watched, can show off what movies they have seen to others and can make movie lists along with other functionality. I have wanted to do something like this for music, and I saw that Noah had a similar idea, but it was more based on just sharing. So, it tickled that interest for me. We have not really decided on an approach as a team. I imagine we first must focus mainly on the front-end design before we can really get into the back end which I would be focusing on more. 

With this kind of app, it is hard to kind of set a specific endpoint for development. What we need to do as a group is come up with a set of essential features that we would like/need to have for the app to work and combined would make up the minimum viable product that we could deliver. Depending on timelines, any additional features would be good, but it would be important to try our best to keep to that minimum viable product that we decide. That way we aren’t overcommitting ourselves. For self-evaluation, it’s a bit hard to tell at this point but again it goes back to setting up a good basis of a plan. On top of that we could also set deadlines for specific aspects/features of the app. These don’t need to be harsh deadlines, but they would be helpful to keep us on track and we can use them to evaluate how we are doing. 
