<p>My senior design project is to create a Spotify-integrated music sharing social media app. It will be all about taking my idea for a real-world useful application and making it into an app that people would actually enjoy using. I will want to focus on using the Spotify API to seamlessly allow people to share music that they listen to other people without leaving the app as much as possible. The project may also include data analytics, which we have yet to finalize how it would be implemented. One idea for data analytics was to create a way for the app to show you relevant posts from other people based on what kind of music you interacted with previously. Overall the main goal is to create at least a prototype for a new kind of social media app that people enjoy scrolling through. </p>
	<p>My college curriculum has unfortunately not prepared me a ton for this project, since most of the curriculum is focused on backend and theory/math experience. I am taking a User Interface class (CS 5167) this semester that will hopefully teach me ways to make the application usable for average users. I also had taken Cloud Computing (CS 5165), which gave me a lot of experience in making code from scratch, especially webpages. Another course that helped me was ENED (ENED 1120), because this was my first experience in college working with a big group. It is not only important to have technical skills, but also experience communicating with others. Overall these classes will help guide me on how to work with my teammates and what my interests are in the project to focus on. </p>
	<p>My co-op experience has definitely prepared myself more for this project. I have 2 software development co-ops worth of experience at Medpace where I primarily used C# and Typescript. This gave me valuable real world full stack experience, mostly on web applications. It also gave me needed communication skills that will help me meet with my group and plan out how we will tackle tasks. It has also given me experience in using GitHub to work with teams. Overall, my co-op experience has also helped me figure out what kind of applications I enjoy making.</p>
	<p>My motivation from this project comes from a desire to make this app that I’ve had for a while. I think a social media app created for the purpose of sharing music is something that is missing from the real life app catalogue. For example, if Spotify had a section of the app dedicated to scrolling through music posts, it would create a desire to stay on the app for much longer. My main goal is to create at least a prototype for what a real app could be. This real app would have its own music catalogue in the app for licensed streaming. Our prototype will likely instead use the Spotify API to access the catalogue of music through a subscription.</p>
	<p>The preliminary project approach is to figure out what the app should have. We know it should start with the essentials, which is the UI to support browsing posts linked to music and the integration to the Spotify API to support that. We will evaluate ourselves by first creating goals. These goals will try our best to align with the complexity that we can finish in the entire year. If they turned out to not be complex enough, we have many features that we could add on top of the base app. The great thing about our app idea is that it can start as a small prototype, and branch into many more ideas to support it’s benefits.</p>
